This source tree was tested with Borland C Builder 5.5, and Microsoft Visual C++ 2010
Express Edition.  The client can also be compiled with MS Visual C++ 6.0, and the instructions
below explain how to do so.  However, this compiler is no longer supported by the Netrek
XP 2009 author as it is not free software (everything else needed for compiling is free).

I'd like however to discourage you from using Borland's compiler unless you know how
to debug its binaries. The output is also slower even though speed optimizations
are used.

Step 1:
--------
Edit build.cmd to set following variables:

Compiler = VCC or BCC (default VCC)
InstCWD = path to folder to copy files to (default \netrek_files)
HelpCompiler = path to hhc.exe from Microsoft's HTML Help Workshop (available from microsoft.com)

Step 2:
--------

First off, you will need the development package for SDL, as well as SDL-mixer.
Refer to the SDL website for how to install it with your compiler/IDE.

You will also need zlib, get the compiled DLL, lib, and headers here at:
http://www.zlib.net/zlib125-dll.zip
and follow the USAGE.txt for installation instructions for your compiler
Note: Version number of zlib file may need to be changed, check web site for most recent version.
Note: Zdll.lib beyond version 1.2.3 gives a linker warning which states
  LNK4078: multiple '.text' sections found with different attributes
Netrek still works ok, and using version 1.2.3 of Zdll.lib made the warning disappear.  Do not
know how to fix with most recent pre-compiled zdll.lib.  Did not attempt to compile zdll.lib
from scratch.

If you're building with MS Visual C++:

- Edit clientr.dsp and change \netrek_files to be same as InstCWD
- Edit src\cursors\curslib.dsp and change \netrek_files to be same as InstCWD
- Edit src\winkey\winkey.dsp and change \netrek_files to be same as InstCWD

If you're building with Borland C Builder:

Make sure you have configuration set correctly for the builder itself.
Follow setup instructions from builder readme file to create proper configuration
files. Otherwise the compiler and linker won't find the correct paths.

If you're building with Microsoft Visual Studio 2005

This is no longer supported.  You will need the SDK from the web, as the software
doesn't come with the necessary files.  Additionally, DirectX SDK is probably needed too,
for the SDL support.  You will also need the HTML help workshop (from Microsoft) to 
compile the help file.  If you use the studio files that come with the source,
it should already have most of the proper configuration set up, such as links to the
lib files and using the proper resource files.  The following webpage indicates how
to properly install the Microsoft SDK.  The name of the article on this webpage is
"Using Visual C++ 2005 Express Edition with the Microsoft Platform SDK"
http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/visualc/usingpsdk/
Especially important are steps 3 and 4.  Step 4 was necessary to get winkey to compile.
Versions up to Netrek XP 2010 v1.0 were developed with Visual Studio 2005.  In September
2010 the build environment was changed to Visual Studio 2010.  Upgrading wizard converted
vcproj files to vcxproj files, which are not backwards compatable with Studio 2005.  Using
old version of clientr.sln in the repository allows for project to be built under Studio
2005.

If you're building with Microsoft Visual Studio 2010

This is a preferred compiler.  The SDK that comes with the compiler apparently has the
necessary files unlike with 2005.   Additionally, DirectX SDK is probably needed too,
for the SDL support.  You will also need the HTML help workshop (from Microsoft) to 
compile the help file.

Step 3:
--------
Open command prompt in the source tree directory and run build.cmd.  Note that this build
script must use borland make, not GNU make, so don't try and run it under cygwin.  Also
note that since the script is run in DOS, it can't handle directory names with spaces or
quotations.  Highly recommend having netrekxp folder in root, i.e. c:\netrekxp

If everything is correct and working then after a couple of minutes you will have compiled
a working client under InstCWD\netrek.
If you were compiling with Visual C++ you will also have a InstCWD\tmp folder containing
lots of objects.  Just delete it.

That's pretty much all.

Stas Pirogov (keyos@keyos.org)

Instructions modified by Bill Balcerski 